Adding Custom Accounting guide (#806)
Uniswap/docs: docs/contracts/v4/guides/08-custom-accounting.mdx

> # Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title: Unlock Callback & Deltas
---

# Introduction
```

Uniswap v4 introduces a set of powerful, interconnected features that proposes a new way automated market makers (AMMs) can function. Custom accounting, hook fees, custom curves, and return deltas might seem like distinct concepts, but they form a cohesive system that enables unprecedented flexibility in decentralized exchange mechanisms.

These features are grouped together because they collectively represent the core of Uniswap v4’s customizability. They all relate to how pool state is managed and modified, working in tandem to allow developers to create highly tailored AMM experiences. From dynamic fee structures to unique bonding curves.

# Brief Overview of Concepts

Before we dive into the details of custom accounting, hook fees, custom curves, and return deltas, let’s explore how these features work in Uniswap v4.

## Delta Accounting in v4

> As described in [Flash Accounting](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/concepts/flash-accounting) Uniswap v4 tracks net token transfers with transient storage. Unlike previous versions that tracked absolute token balances, v4 records changes (*deltas*) to these balances. This approach is at the core of v4’s enhanced flexibility and efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in [Flash Accounting](/contracts/v4/concepts/flash-accounting) Uniswap v4 tracks net token transfers with transient storage. Unlike previous versions that tracked absolute token balances, v4 records changes to these balances (*deltas*). This approach is at the core of v4’s enhanced flexibility and efficiency.
```

Hook fees are distinct from the standard pool fees. They can be implemented alongside pool fees without interfering with the core fee structure.

**Implemented in beforeSwap**

Hook fees are typically calculated and applied in the `beforeSwap` function, allowing them to modify the swap parameters before the core swap logic is executed.

**Use of BeforeSwapDelta**

Hook fees often utilize the `BeforeSwapDelta` mechanism to adjust swap amounts and transfer deltas from the hook to the swap router, enabling precise control over how the fee affects the swap.

**Flexible Implementation**

Developers have full control over how hook fees are calculated, collected, and distributed. This allows for complex fee structures tailored to specific use cases. In other words, developers can implement static fees, percentage-based fees, or even a fee that changes.

**Potential Use Cases**

- Monetization of hook development
- Implementation of withdrawal penalties (e.g., to penalize just-in-time liquidity provision)
- Custom value distribution for liquidity providers

Keep reading because at the bottom we are providing a step by step guide on how to implement hook fees.

## Custom Curves in v4

> Custom Curves in Uniswap v4 represent a big change in AMM design flexibility. Unlike [Uniswap v2](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v2/concepts/protocol-overview/how-uniswap-works) where the x*y=k formula was hardcoded, v4 allows developers to implement a wide variety of pricing models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Curves in Uniswap v4 represent a big change in AMM design flexibility. Unlike [Uniswap v2](/contracts/v2/concepts/protocol-overview/how-uniswap-works) where the x*y=k formula was hardcoded, v4 allows developers to implement a wide variety of pricing models.
```

## Return Deltas in v4

Return deltas are a fundamental mechanism in Uniswap v4's custom accounting system. They allow for precise, programmatic adjustments to the outcomes of operations within the protocol.

Key aspects of return deltas:

1. **Dual Adjustment**: Return deltas simultaneously modify the balance changes (deltas) for both the hook contract and the swap router. This dual nature ensures that custom logic is accurately reflected across the entire system.
2. **Credits and Debts Modification**: By adjusting these deltas, return deltas effectively alter the credits and debts owed by the hook and the swap router. This allows for complex economic models to be implemented directly within the protocol.
3. **Native Pricing Bypass**: Return deltas enable hooks to implement custom curves that can completely bypass Uniswap's native pricing mechanism. This opens up possibilities for entirely new types of automated market makers within the Uniswap ecosystem.

> 4. **Hook Fee Implementation**: Through return deltas, hooks can implement their own fee structures, separate from and additional to the core protocol fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Hook Fee Implementation**: Through return deltas, hooks can implement their own fee structures, separate from the core protocol fees.
```

> In essence, it allow for bespoke modification of operation results and enables features that were previously impossible in earlier versions of the protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In essence, return deltas allow for bespoke modification of an operation's result -- enabling features that were previously impossible in earlier versions of the protocol.
```

    constructor(IPoolManager _poolManager) BaseHook(_poolManager) {}

    function getHookPermissions() public pure override returns (Hooks.Permissions memory) {
        return Hooks.Permissions({
            beforeInitialize: false,
            afterInitialize: false,
            beforeAddLiquidity: false,
            beforeRemoveLiquidity: false,
            afterAddLiquidity: false,
            afterRemoveLiquidity: false,
            beforeSwap: true,
            afterSwap: false,
            beforeDonate: false,
            afterDonate: false,
            beforeSwapReturnDelta: true,
            afterSwapReturnDelta: false,
            afterAddLiquidityReturnDelta: false,
            afterRemoveLiquidityReturnDelta: false
        });
    }
}

```

Here, we're setting up our hook with a constant fee of 0.01% and enabling the `beforeSwap` and `beforeSwapReturnDelta` permissions.

## Step 2: Implementing the beforeSwap Function

Now, let's implement our `beforeSwap` function:

```solidity
function beforeSwap(
    address,
    PoolKey calldata key,
    IPoolManager.SwapParams calldata params,
    bytes calldata
) external override returns (bytes4, BeforeSwapDelta, uint24) {

> 		// Implementation details will be explained in the following sub-steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	// Implementation details will be explained in the following sub-steps
```

}

```

### Step 2.1: Calculate the swap amount and fee

We determine the absolute swap amount and calculate our fee based on it.

```solidity
uint256 swapAmount = params.amountSpecified < 0
    ? uint256(-params.amountSpecified)
    : uint256(params.amountSpecified);
uint256 feeAmount = (swapAmount * HOOK_FEE_PERCENTAGE) / FEE_DENOMINATOR;

```

### Step 2.2: Collect the fee

We use `poolManager.take` to collect the fee. This creates a debt for our hook in the specified currency.

```solidity
Currency feeCurrency = params.zeroForOne ? key.currency0 : key.currency1;
poolManager.take(feeCurrency, address(this), feeAmount);

```

### Step 2.3: Create the BeforeSwapDelta

This is where the magic happens. We create a `BeforeSwapDelta` that represents our fee. The `toBeforeSwapDelta` function takes two parameters:

- The specified delta: This is our fee amount. It's positive because we're adding it to the hook's balance.
- The unspecified delta: We set this to 0 as we're not affecting the other currency.

```solidity
BeforeSwapDelta returnDelta = toBeforeSwapDelta(

>     int128(int256(feeAmount)),// Specified delta (fee amount)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    int128(int256(feeAmount)), // Specified delta (fee amount)
```

>     0// Unspecified delta (no change)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    0 // Unspecified delta (no change)
```

);

```

### Step 2.4: Return values

We return the function selector, our `returnDelta`, and 0 for the fee override.

```solidity
return (BaseHook.beforeSwap.selector, returnDelta, 0);
```

## Step 3: Understanding the BeforeSwapDelta Mechanism

Now, let's dive deeper into how the `BeforeSwapDelta` works and how it affects the overall swap process.

1. **Initial State**:

> Let's say a user wants to swap 100 USDC for USDT. Initially:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say a user wants to swap 100 USDC for USDT
```

    - Hook's delta: (0, 0)
    - User's swap request: -100 USDC (negative because they're selling)
    
2. **After Hook Execution**:
Our hook has taken a 1 USDC fee (assuming 1% for simplicity):
    - Hook's delta: (-1 USDC, 0) // The hook now owes 1 USDC to the pool
    - BeforeSwapDelta returned: (1 USDC, 0) // This will be added to the hook's delta and subtracted from the swap delta
    
3. **PoolManager Processing**:

> The PoolManager applies our `BeforeSwapDelta`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PoolManager applies our `BeforeSwapDelta`

```

The pool then swaps 99 USDC for, let's say, 98 USDT.
    

>     ```solidity
>     amountToSwap = params.amountSpecified + hookDelta.getSpecifiedDelta();
>     -99 USDC = -100 USDC + 1 USDC
>     ```

Reviewer: this isnt formatted correctly when i run the docs locally
```suggestion
```solidity
amountToSwap = params.amountSpecified + hookDelta.getSpecifiedDelta();
-99 USDC = -100 USDC + 1 USDC
```
```

Reviewer: can you double check this fix locally? the suggestion doesnt look right to me since its missing the closing ticks ```

github doesnt seem to like it haha

    
4. **Delta Resolution**:
The PoolManager then resolves the deltas:
    

>     ```solidity
>     // Hook's new delta
>     newHookDelta = oldHookDelta + returnDelta
>     (0, 0) = (-1 USDC, 0) + (1 USDC, 0)
>     
>     // Swap delta for router
>     swapDelta = (-99 USDC, 98 USDT) - (1 USDC, 0)
>               = (-100 USDC, 98 USDT)
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```solidity
// Hook's new delta
newHookDelta = oldHookDelta + returnDelta
(0, 0) = (-1 USDC, 0) + (1 USDC, 0)
// Swap delta for router
swapDelta = (-99 USDC, 98 USDT) - (1 USDC, 0)
          = (-100 USDC, 98 USDT)
```

```

Reviewer: can you double check this fix locally? the suggestion doesnt look right to me since its missing the closing ticks ```

github doesnt seem to like it haha

---

> title: Unlock Callback & Deltas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Custom Accounting
```
